## About
The large scale of The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild often presents an issue for new and old players alike who enter into the game, namely, the large number of beasts, or enemies, that can potentially be encountered and the limited weapon inventory slots initially provided. For players unwilling to devote large amounts of time to expanding their inventory, a process that can be arduous and difficult, they are left with the ability to only carry eight melee weapons with them at a time. This can lead to difficult decisions for the player as weapons within the game are built with different durability statistics and strengths and must be chosen carefully. With limited inventory space, players are prone to hoarding, quickly filling up their weapon cache and are left with weapons they are unsure when to use. The model discussed in this white paper addresses this issue by analyzing beast data with melee weapon statistics to determine the best weapon combinations to carry when encountering these beasts through a supervised machine learning model.

## Data
The data for this project was pulled from The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, the Complete Official Guide: Expanded Edition.

## Conclusion
Overall, this project sought to predict what weapons were best suited for various beast encounters in The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild. While unique weapons cannot be predicted due to lack of available features, the best subclass of melee weapon can be determined through data not reliant to unique player data. This model predicted that the Light Subclass would be the best suitable weapon for a larger variety of beasts within the game. Analysis of the dataset itself showed that Light weapons were more versatile with regard to Durability and Strength. To create a stronger model, efforts could be made to gather player specific data and incorporate that data within this model. This model could also be improved by building out a more solid connection between Beast and Weapon data.
