## About
The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I men’s basketball tournament, better known to the majority as March Madness, has been around since 1939. Originally played with only eight teams, the tournament has expanded to include 68 teams from 32 Division I conferences spread across the United States (NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament, n.d.). The 84th edition of the tournament saw several upsets, with lower ranked teams overcoming those that had been favored to win. However, despite these upsets, the University of Connecticut took the trophy home, garnering them their fifth overall win as national champions. The school remains amongst the ranks of the few other schools who have won the tournament multiple times, but what makes a team successful in this tournament? This project examines what statistics make a team into champions and aims to provide a guide for improvement for teams that struggle in the NCAA tournament.

## Data
The data used in this project was collected from Sports-Reference.com, a site dedicated to collecting current and historical data on college basketball. The data was pulled from the NCAA Seasons Index; information dating back to the inception of the tournament was not available. Data was only available dating back to 1993. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the NCAA tournament was not played during 2020 and no data was collected. As such, only 29 years’ worth of data was able to be gathered. Each year’s corresponding index included the complete list of teams eligible for selection into the tournament along with their associated statistics. These statistics are comprised of each team’s overall games, wins, losses, win-loss percentage, and their in-game statistics, which includes features such as assists, steals, blocks, etc. As the NCAA Tournament outcome was the specific focus of this project, the data was split further into teams that were eligible for the tournament and teams that were not. Teams that did not make the tournament were discarded from consideration.

## Conclusion
All three models’ inability to correctly recognize true positive wins leads to the conclusion that there is not enough data regarding wins for the model to make an accurate assessment of patterns. As such, the result of these models was the opposite of this project’s intention, they are accurate at predicting losing teams but fail more than half of the time to identify winning teams. This also leads to the conclusion that these models are potentially overfit to the data.
